Welcome to the next
week of our course,
on parallel functional
programming with Java.
The lessons this week continue
to explore key features
of the Java streams framework.
We begin by explaining
and visualizing
the structure and functionality
of the simple search stream
program, which
sequentially searches
for words in a string
initialized from a file.
This program is
used as a case study
throughout this week's
lessons to showcase
Java's functional programming
features, such as lambda
expressions and
method references,
in conjunction with core Java
sequential stream capabilities.
We next explore
many factory methods
that can be applied to create
streams from various sources,
including Java collections,
built-in arrays,
and file input classes.
After a stream is created
via factory method,
the data elements
in the stream are
processed by a pipeline of
so-called aggregate operations,
which apply behaviors on
elements in the stream
to perform processing steps,
such as downloading images
from URLs or searching for
words in an input string.
A stream consists of two types
of aggregate operations, zero
or more intermediate
operations, which
process elements in
their input stream
and yield an output stream,
followed by one terminal
operation, which triggers
the processing of data
by all the preceding
intermediate operations
in the stream, and yields
a non-stream result.
A behavior passed to an
intermediate operation
is typically implemented by a
lambda expression or a method
reference.
Ideally, a behavior
has no side effects,
which means the
output it produces
depends only on the input it
receives, thereby simplifying
program analysis and
debugging, as well as enabling
transparent optimizations
and scalable paralyzed.
Each stream contains
three phases.
The first phase
performs splitting,
which converts a data
source into a stream.
The second phase
performs applying,
which processes the
elements in the stream
by running through a pipeline
of intermediate operations.
The third phase
performs combining,
which uses a terminal operation
to merge the sub-results
from the applying phase to
form a single reduced result.
The final lessons this week
provide detailed coverage
of the most common stream
intermediate operations,
such as map, filter,
and flat map.
These and other
intermediate operations
are showcased in the context of
the simple search stream case
study to demonstrate how they
can be applied in practice.